# Periodic Chemistry
The Jupyter notebooks in this directory walk through resource analysis for qubitized phase estimation for electronic structure Hamiltonians in the dual plan-wave representation using the `LinearT` block encoding from Section IV of ["Encoding Electronic Spectra in Quantum Circuits with Linear T Complexity"](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.03662) and the `ElectronicStructure` ProblemInstance.


## Notebook Summaries
### problem_setup.ipynb
This notebook details how to use `PEST`, a Julia package, to generate periodic electronic structure Hamiltonian coefficients. This includes tuning parameters which control the system size in terms of the number of basis elements.

### problem_instance_and_encoding.ipynb
This notebook walks through how to block encode and perform resource analysis for periodic electronic structure Hamiltonians generated using `PEST`. This includes initializing an ElectronicStructure(ProblemInstance) instance and encoding it with the LinearT algorithm based on ["Encoding Electronic Spectra in Quantum Circuits with Linear T Complexity"](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.03662). The inputs for this notebook can be created following the steps in `problem_setup.ipynb`.

### resource_estimates-electronic_structure-mg_slab.ipynb
This notebook uses `pyLIQTR` to generate explicit resource estimates for ground state energy estimation of the magnesium slab, a particular periodic electronic structure system, with coefficients expressed in the dual plane-wave basis. This builds on `problem_instance_and_encoding.ipynb` by using the encoding to build a qubitized walk operator. This notebook also demonstrates how to extrapolate resource counts to large scale systems.

## Additional Files
### example.grid.hdf5
Example of one of two files generated by `PEST`. Contains the basis grid for the chosen system. See `problem_setup.ipynb` for steps to generate new files.
### example.ham.hdf5
Example of one of two files generated by `PEST`. Contains the Hamiltonian coefficients for the chosen system. See `problem_setup.ipynb` for steps to generate new files.

### figures
Contains figures used for demonstration in the notebooks.